you might want to back up a little bit
they're great as opportunist these
lizards will try and eat anything they
think they can get away with even
occasionally people
[Music]
it seems the pickings around the guides
Hut's must be pretty good because there
are loads of dragons here and dead big
[Music]
these are Komodo dragons the largest
lizards on earth and just
extraordinarily broad powerful okay big
fella it's alright it's okay
do want to move quickly because that
could trigger a predatory response much
safer just staying calm and still
it looks like he's trying to regurgitate
something seeing the dragons on the
islands of Komodo might not be hard but
they're so efficient that they can go a
very long time without hunting so it
could be tricky to see them at their
deadly best I do have a few ideas though
there's one bit of science I'd really
like to try with the Komodo dragons here
this is a bite test gauge it measures
the force of the bite of an animal so if
I bite on this here should register
about 120 pounds per square inch to get
the dragons to bite we're going to need
a little bit of encouragement in the
form of some honking meat we have bite
test gauge with stinking rotten meat on
it let's see what damage our Komodo
dragons can do lizards aren't generally
known for the force of their bite so I'd
like to find out what this super-sized
specimen can do
is it gonna actually bite down there
okay I felt by more of the bite there's
a night window with the smell of blood
in the air I'm suddenly surrounded by
ravenous drooling jaws okay guys it's
alright but let it sweat snake well
let's take it back off back off
let's find out
[Music]
so they're just chomping away at it now
hopefully Wow
they'll get the meat off there and I'll
be able to recover the flight test gauge
and see what we registered so you can
really see how that tail can be used as
a defensive weapon it's like it been hit
by a baseball bat
[Music]
just gonna wait a couple of minutes
before I go in and get my gauge back
with a meet gone I carefully go in to
see how much power the dragons are
packing whoa
well that is much more than I was
expecting we've got nearly 600 pounds
per square inch which is five times a
human bite force and much more than I
expect from a monitor lizzard I mean
these animals have really lightweight
skulls they actually rely far more on
their very sharp
backwards facing teeth to deliver a
killing bite than they do the force of
their bite so to have a bite that strong
is incredible
[Music]
you